.pilot-hints.md, before:

## PR Pilot 
Project `PR Pilot` is a developer tool / platform that assists developers in their daily work and integrates with the dev tools they use daily.
- Django/Python/Docker/Kubernetes
- Dependencies in `requirements.txt`
- Version number maintained in `version.txt`
- Helm chart in `helm-chart/`
- The Sentry project slug is `python-django`
- The CLI is not part of this project, but in PR-Pilot-AI/pr-pilot-cli

## Domain model.
- Everything in PR Pilot is a task
- Tasks are created using prompts, via the API or webhooks
- Tasks are run by the task engine in `engine/`

## The API
- Implemented with Django DRF in `api/`
- Provides endpoints for creating tasks, history
- Used by the SDK, CLI, Github actions, etc

## The dashboard
- Implemented using Django templates and views in `dashboard/`
- Frontend uses Bootstrap 5

## Tests
- Use pytest functions
- Use pytest.fixture, pytest.mark.parametrize to keep things organized
- Use MagicMock to mock external dependencies or API calls

## Other
- Docs implemented in Sphinx in `docs/`
- Makefile does all the building

Commit message:

Add info about deployment to .pilot-hints.md

.pilot-hints.md, after:

## PR Pilot 
Project `PR Pilot` is a developer tool / platform that assists developers in their daily work and integrates with the dev tools they use daily.
- Django/Python/Docker/Kubernetes
- Dependencies in `requirements.txt`
- Version number maintained in `version.txt`
- Helm chart in `helm-chart/`
- The Sentry project slug is `python-django`
- The CLI is not part of this project, but in PR-Pilot-AI/pr-pilot-cli

## Domain model.
- Everything in PR Pilot is a task
- Tasks are created using prompts, via the API or webhooks
- Tasks are run by the task engine in `engine/`

## The API
- Implemented with Django DRF in `api/`
- Provides endpoints for creating tasks, history
- Used by the SDK, CLI, Github actions, etc

## The dashboard
- Implemented using Django templates and views in `dashboard/`
- Frontend uses Bootstrap 5

## Tests
- Use pytest functions
- Use pytest.fixture, pytest.mark.parametrize to keep things organized
- Use MagicMock to mock external dependencies or API calls

## Deployment
- Deployed using Helm Charts in our Kubernetes cluster
- Deployment happens manually, all commands are in the Makefile

## Other
- Docs implemented in Sphinx in `docs/`
- Makefile does all the building
